# Computational-simulation-of-AWA-neurons-and-olfaction-multi-neuron-analysis-for-detection-of-all-or-
Repository of the code created for the Bachelor's Thesis (Trabajo Fin de Grado) of Diego Sanoja for the degree on Biomedical Engineering. 


Over  past  decades,  brain  research  transformed  through  a  number  of  intrinsic  transformations of  human  thinking  to  approach  the  mind  and  the  brain.  The knowledge acquired by human society of the brain has also evolved over decades in philosophical, experimental and  theoretical  stages.  One of the growing advancements and a possible stage is simulation neuroscience. \cite{Fan2019}.

 In general terms, one could state that there is now an overall understanding of how individual neurons operate and process information, but that the behavior of networks of such neurons is poorly understood. Following the pioneering work of the first neuroscientists in mapping out receptive fields in the early visual system, similar approaches have been used to explore how different types of sensory input and behavior are represented in the brain. The main impulses of simulation neuroscience are big data generated at multiple levels of  brain  organization  and  the  need  to  integrate  these  data  to  trace  the  causal  chain of interactions within and across all these levels to make up what is called the connectome (the entire network of neurons, their interconnections and their locations) \cite{Fan2019}.

For there to be a detailed connectome such as the one used for this work, first there must be a through detailed plan of the individual components of it, the neurons. This, along with the connections and activity encompass the nodes of the so-called neural network simulations. Consequently, with these elements mapped out, models can be run to generate outputs with a series of biological inputs. This process is simple in broader terms, but as the scale reduces, complexity increases exponentially and the dreaded journey into to the unknown rises out again for single-neuron activities and brain-body environment loops (where both environmental stimuli and neural circuity influence the outputs, increasing the richness of data) . These sort of behaviors from brain-body-environment interactions and the fact that human brains have a large amount of neuronal connections makes their simulation a complicated problem. 

 A particular method to fulfill this challenge in a less complex manner is reducing the scale of study, by starting this analysis with a smaller organism. In this scientific project, the work performed consisted of a computer simulation, specifically a single-neuron simulation, on the first organism with its entire neural connectome mapped out, the 302 neurons of the \textit{Caenorhabditis elegans} worm, with a focus on sensorial activities such as olfaction and chemosensation on prelimnary multi-neuron models.
